[Question sheet](https://ele.exeter.ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=4404735)


##### Questions
 - [[#Q1 - BST Time Complexity]]
 - 


##### Q1 - BST Time Complexity
C - $O(N)$ - The worst time complexity for finding the minimum node in the BST.
**Correct**

##### Q2 - Topological Sort Requirements
A - For a graph to have a topological sort, it must be a directed acyclic graph.
**Correct**

##### Q3 - Max-heap
B - The minimum value in a max-heap can be found at one of the leaf nodes.
**Correct**

##### Q4 - Graph Traversal
A - Depth-First Search uses a stack.
**Correct**

##### Q5 - Complete Binary Tree Property
B
**Partially correct** - Also C

##### Q6 - In-degree
A and C
**Correct**

##### Q7 - Pre-order tree Traversal
B - $\{ 1, 2, 4, 5, 3, 6 \}$
**Correct**

##### Q8 - Binary Tree Leaf Nodes
B
**Correct**

##### Q9 - AVL Tree Height
A
My logic says that this is correct, but Anne (the lecturer) says it is wrong, and the answer should be B.

##### Q10 - Tree Traversal Methods
B
**Correct**

##### Q11 - Adjacency Lists
A
Correct answer is D and I understand why.

##### Q12 - Tree Node Insertion
C
Correct answer is A.

##### Q13 - AVL Tree Identification
A and C - Both A and C adhere to the BST property and all balance factors are $\in \{ -1,0,1 \}$.
**Correct!**

##### Q14 - Tree Rotations
D - You need to perform a single left rotation on nodes $\{ H, P, Z \}$.
**Correct**

##### Q15 - Double Tree Rotations
B
**Correct**

##### Q16 - Single Source Shortest Path
B
The correct answer is A because the edges could have a negative weight, but Dijkstra's algorithm doesn't work for negative edges!

##### Q17 - Performing Dijkstra's Algorithm
Queue:

| Priority (Cost) | Value |
| --------------- | ----- |
| 10              | T     |
| 12              | F     |
|                 |       |

Final Table:

| Cost | Node | Prev. Node |
| ---- | ---- | ---------- |
| 4    | A    | S          |
| 3    | B    | S          |
| 5    | C    | A          |
| 7    | D    | B          |
| 6    | E    | C          |
| 12   | F    | D          |
| 8    | G    | E          |
| 0    | S    | -          |
| 10   | T    | D          |
Therefore the shortest path from node $S$ to $T$ is: $\{ S \to B \to D \to T \}$.

I.e. answer B.

The correct answer is $D: \{ S, A, C, E, T \}$. My answer gives you the same "cost", but a smaller number of edges. I think my mistake came down to how I added and sorted node A and D. I need to work through it again sometime.







