[Slides](https://ele.exeter.ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=4373861)


##### Contents
 - [[#What are Lists?]]
 - [[#Lists as Abstract Data Types]]
 - 


##### What are Lists?
 - **Lists** are *linear structures* and only provide *sequential access* to elements.
 - I.e., there is a unique first and last element and all other elements have one predecessor and successor, and to get to element $i$, you MUST traverse/visit all previous nodes/elements.
 - The *first element* is called the **head** and the *last* is called the **tail**.
	 - These are pointers that point to the first and last elements in the list.
 - It is common to only have the head pointer with a singly-linked list, but this makes insertions more costly as you must traverse all elements to insert one.
 - Lists are **dynamic**, meaning they *can grow and shrink* to accommodate their contents.
 - They can only *store a single data type*, i.e. **homogeneous**, e.g. only an integer or string.
 - A list can be used to implement other data structures such as a queue and a stack.
 - The main advantage over arrays is easy insertion and deletion.


##### Lists as Abstract Data Types
 - You have the collection of elements and a "cursor" to allow you to traverse the elements.
 - Lists have many operations, including:
	 - `create()` - creates a new list, should be done using constructors.
	 - `isEmpty()` and `isFull()` - returns true if the list is empty or full respectively.
	 - `insertEnd(v)` and `insertBeginning(v)` - inserts the value $v$ at the end or beginning of the list respectively.
	 - `delete(v)` - deletes the first occurrence of the value $v$.
	 - `deleteAll(v)` - deletes all occurrences of the value $v$.
	 - `reset()` - deletes all elements in the list.


##### 



