Slides


##### Contents
 - 


##### Domain Name Service (DNS)
 - It sits in the application layer of the TCP/IP model.
 - Why do we need a DNS server?
	 - The reason is the same with having names for contacts that map to certain phone numbers.
 - Every time you would like to connect to a web site, you would have to remember their IP address.
 - This is a problem! So, we use a DNS server to map **Domain Names** to IP addresses.
 - The process of mapping a domain name to an IP address is known as **name resolution**.
 - Simplified Process:
	 - User to browser: I want to access "example.com".
	 - Browser to DNS: What is the IP address of this domain name "example.com"?
	 - DNS to browser: Either this this the IP address "..." or not found.
	 - Browser to server: Using the received IP address, asks the server for the request.
	 - Server to browser: Here is the webpage or other resource requested.
	 - Browser to user: Displays the received data.


##### URL Structure
 - Domain names take the form of Uniform Resource Locator (URL).
 - A URL is a form of a Uniform Recourse Identifier (URI).
 - Common URL structure:
```
scheme "://" authority path [ "?" query ] [ "#" fragment]
```
 - `scheme` - The protocol to use.
 - `authority` - The host, e.g. `www.example.org`.
 - ...


##### Mapping Hostnames to IP Addresses
 - DNS mappings are not just one-to-one.
 - *Multiple Hostnames to One IP Address*
	 - Shared / virtual hosting
	 - Different hostnames map to the same IP address.
	 - E.g. `example.com`, `example.co.uk`, etc, all map to `200.100.50.10`.
 - *One Hostname to Multiple IP Addresses*
	 - Load balancing - spread the load of requests over multiple servers.
	 - Redundancy - Ensuring no single point of failure.
	 - However, you get data redundancy, where the data may not be consistent across different servers.


##### DNS Hierarchy
 - DNS is the backbone of the internet.
 - `Root` - `.`
 - `Top Level Domain (TLD)`
	 - Generic - E.g. `.com`, `.gov`, `.org`, etc.
	 - Country specific - E.g. `.uk`, `.eg`, etc.
 - `Lower Domains`
	 - ...


##### Root Name servers
 - You have about 2014 physical root servers spread around the planet.
 - They are operated by 12 logical server operators.
 - They are the first contact if a DNS server cannot resolve a domain name.


##### ...
 - ...


##### DNS Security Problems
 - **Threats**
	 - Forged DNS replies - fake replies.
	 - Cache poisoning - Manipulating the DNS cache on your local machine.
	 - On path tampering - A man-in-the-middle tampers with the DNS reply.
 - **Impact**
	 - Redirects users to a wrong or malicious service
 - **Need**
	 - Authenticity and integrity for DNS data
 - **Solution**
	 - DNSSEC adds a layer of trust on top of DNS (digital signature)
	 - Digital Signature - Says that actually belongs to this "person".


##### DNSSEC
 - Adds authentication (ensure you know the data came from the server you were expecting) and integrity (lets you know if the data has been tampered with during transport)
 - However, it doesn't add confidentiality, i.e. data is still sent as plain text.
 - 







