[Info](https://ele.exeter.ac.uk/pluginfile.php/5352276/mod_resource/content/2/Tutorial_7.pdf)


##### Chosen Project
 - An online teaching platform: Because of the pandemic, all classes in a German high school urgently moved to an online platform. The school hired your team to develop a new system to improve the online learning experience of the students.


##### Software Contract Questions
 - What problems might arise when doing software development with a contract that sets out the specifications, requirements, and deliverables exactly?
	 - During software development, changes are inevitable. The client may change their mind about a particular feature (give feedback) or an external factor may impact the progress through development, such as a pandemic. 
	 - A fixed/rigid contract will not provide leeway to accommodate these inevitable interruptions. 
	 - Furthermore, once a fixed contract is signed, any changes the arise will be a legal issue, rather than a normal part of development.
 - What is the client’s responsibility in your project? What would happen if the client does not comply with their responsibilities?
	 - The term 'client responsibilities' encapsulates everything the client must do, provide or decide to make sure the project can succeed.
	 - The client has several responsibilities, such as cooperation, communication and providing resources. 
	 - 
 - Do you think that your software development contract should have a clause regarding confidentiality? What would be in the contract? How about copyright?


##### Liability Questions
 - Do you think that your project has the potential to cause any damage? How? Provide two examples.
	 - 
 - Should your team be liable for any damages caused by your software? Would you include a liability clause in the contract? How would that be?
	 - Yes, my software team should be liable for any damages, within reason. 
	 - If any damages have occurred, that weren't the from the direct cause of a student or teacher/staff, then the system would be at fault.
	 - The schools reputation could be severely damaged if the system fails when dealing with critical data such 
 - Do you think that developers should be liable for any damage that their software might cause? If so, are there any exceptions? How about large projects? Would that harm the software industry?
