[Slides](https://ele.exeter.ac.uk/pluginfile.php/5558858/mod_resource/content/2/L03-Java-basics-2_note_taking_form.pdf)


##### Contents
 - [[#Casting Primitive Types]]
 - [[#Java Operators]]
 - [[#Conditional Statements]]
 - [[#Bitwise Operators]]


##### Casting Primitive Types
 - ***Casting*** is the process of converting one numerical type to another.
 - Java handles this in two ways:
 - ***Widening Casting (Implicit)***:
	 - This happens automatically when you move from a type with a smaller number of bits to one with a larger number of bits.
	 - E.g. from `int - 32 bits` to `double - 64 bits`.
	 - Since the smaller number of bits can fit into the larger number of bits with no loss of data, this process is automatic.
 - ***Narrowing Casting (Explicit)***:
	 - This must be done manually by placing the desired type in parenthesis before the variable name.
	 - E.g. `int myInt = (int) myDouble;`.
	 - E.g. from `double - 64 bits` to `int - 32 bits`.
	 - This process is not automatic since not in all cases can the larger number of bits be inserted into the smaller number of bits, therefore data loss can occur.
 - `double a = 7 / 2; // a = 3.0 not 3.5`
	 - This problem occurs since Java performs integer division first, losing the remainder, before assigning it to the double.
	 - To overcome this, make sure either the numerator or denominator is a float or double (a decimal data type!).


##### Java Operators
 - ***Operators*** allow you to perform calculations and logic based on the value of different variables.
 - There are three categories of operators:
 - ***Arithmetic and Relational***:
	 - You have basic *mathematical operators*, such as `+ (add)`, `- (subtract)`, `* (multiply)`, `/ (divide)`, and `% (modulus/remainder)`.
	 - You have *relational operators*, such as `== (equal)`, `!= (not equal)`, `< (less than)`, `> (greater than)`, `<= (less than or equal to)`, and `>= (greater than or equal to)`.
	 - You also have assignment shortcut operators, such as `x += 2 -> x = x + 2`.
 - ***Increment and Decrement***:
	 - These operators adjust the value of a numerical variable by 1, but the placement of this operator matters:
	 - ***Postfix*** (`y = x++;`):
		 - Returns the current value of `x`, then increments/decrements `x`.
		 - Translates to: `y = x;` *THEN* `x = x +[or -] 1;`.
	 - ***Prefix*** (`y = ++x;`):
		 - Increments/decrements `x`, then returns the value.
		 - Translates to: `x = x +[or -] 1;` *THEN* `y = x;`.
	 - When used alone, e.g. `x++;`, both placements work the same.
	 - Think of the placement of the operator as you encounter it from left to right in the statement.
	 - E.g. for `y = ++x;`, going from left to right, you encounter the increment operator first, so you increment `x` first, then you encounter the variable `x`, so you return its value.
 - ***Logical and Short-Circuit Operators***:
	 - Operators like `&&` (AND) and `||` (OR) are ***short-circuit operators***. This means that if the left hand side operand already *determines the outcome* of the whole logical expression, then Java will *skip the right hand side operand to save time*.
	 - Example: `if (myString != null && myString.indexOf('+') > 0)`, if `mystring` is null, then the second part is never checked, avoiding a `NullPointerException`. This logic can be useful in certain situations.
	 - Using a single `&` or `|` would force both sides to be checked, which would crash the program in this example.


##### Conditional Statements
 - These statements allow your code to make decisions based on whether a condition is `true` or `false`.
 - ***If - If Else - Else***:
	 - This this the standard way to branch code.
	 - Example: 
```java
int age = 19;

if (age >= 18) {
	System.out.println("You are an adult.");
} else if (age >= 13) {
	System.out.println("You are a teenager.");
} else {
	System.out.println("You are a child.");
}
```
 - ***Ternary Operator***:
	 - This is shorthand for a simply `if-else` statement.
	 - Does not allow you to include an `else if` statement.
	 - Structure: `(condition) ? valueIfTrue : valueIfFalse;`.
	 - Example:
```java
int age = 19;

bool isAdult = (age >= 18) ? true : false;

System.out.println(isAdult);

-- OUTPUT -----------------------------------------------------------
true
```
 - ***Switch Statements***:
	 - You check the value of variable against several `case` values.
	 - You must include the `break` keyword to stop the code from falling through to the next case statement.
	 - Example:
```java
int age = 19;

switch (age) {
	case 19: 
		System.out.println("You are 19 years old.");
		break;
	default:
		System.out.println("You are not 19 years old.");
}
```
 - ***Switch Expressions***:
	 - A more modern version of switch statements introduced in 2019.
	 - They allow you to directly yield a value, i.e. return a value to be assigned to a variable.
	 - `->` is used to yield a value.
	 - Example:
```java
int age = 19;

bool is19Or18 = switch (age) {
	case 19, 18 -> true;
	default -> false;
}
```


##### Bitwise Operators
 - Bitwise operators are used to manipulate bit strings.
 - `x & y` - Bitwise AND - Only `1` if both bits are `1`.
 - `x | y` - Bitwise OR - `1` if at least one bit is `1`.
 - `x ^ y` - Bitwise XOR - `1` if both bits are different.
 - `x << k` - Left Shift - Shifts bits left `k` times, effectively multiplying by $2^k$.
 - `x >> k` - Right Shift - Shifts bits right `k` times, effectively dividing by $2^k$.
 - `x >>> k` - Unsigned Right Shift - Moves bits right and fills with zeros.



