[Slides](https://ele.exeter.ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=4322341)


##### Contents
 - [[#What is a Computer Network]]
 - [[#End/Host Devices]]
 - [[#Network/Intermediary Devices]]
 - [[#Peripherals]]
 - [[#Network Media]]
 - [[#Classifying a Network]]
 - [[#Local Area Network (LAN)]]
 - [[#Wide Area Network (WAN)]]
 - [[#The Internet]]
 - [[#Internet of Things (IoT)]]
 - [[#Communication Protocols]]
 - 


##### What is a Computer Network
 - A **computer network** is a *group* of devices that are *connected* to provide certain services.
 - A **device** or **node** is some form of computer on the network, e.g. PC, server, mobile phone, etc.
 - A **client** requests a service from a server.
 - A **server** offers a service for a client, e.g. web server.
- To access a service, we need a protocol to enable communication:
	- Web service: HTTP/HTTPs
	- Email: SMTP
	- Remote access: SSH, Telnet


##### End/Host Devices
 - A **host** is a device that initiates and receives data.
 - I.e. the source and destination of data within a network is always an end device.
 - They live on the *"network edge"*, meaning a user (person) will directly interface with them, and they do not route network traffic.
 - E.g. laptop, mobile phone, PC, server, printer, etc.
 - Local vs network devices:
	 - *Local* = directly connected to a single end device.
	 - *Network* = directly connected to the network (through a switch)
 - They have two unique addresses assigned to them:
	 - *Physical*  - Example: MAC (e.g. 3C:22:FB:7A:91:0D).
	 - *Logical*  - Example: IP (e.g. 192.168.1.1, which is private).


##### Network/Intermediary Devices
 - An **intermediary device** *sits in between* two or more *end devices*.
 - They allow a host to connect to the network and communicate.
 - Intermediary devices include:
	 - **Hub** - allows you to create a network.
	 - **Switch** - also allows you to create a network.
	 - **Router** - joins two networks together and contain an ACL (Access Central List)


##### Peripherals:
- These are local end devices, i.e. are not directly connected to the network.
- E.g. local printer, web cam, local scanner.


##### Network Media
 - **Network media** are the *connections between any two network devices* (end or intermediary devices).
 - There are two types: wired and wireless.
 - **Wired Connections**
	 - These use physical cables to connect two devices.
	 - *Metallic "Copper" Cables*
		 - Use electrical pulses to transmit data
		 - E.g. ethernet and coaxial
	 - *Fibre-optic Cables*
		 - Use light to transmit data
		 - E.g. fibre-optic cables
 - **Wireless Connections**
	 - Wi-Fi
		 - Uses Electromagnetic (EM) waves to transmit data (radio, microwave and infrared)


##### Classifying a Network
 - You can classify a network based upon two concepts: scope and transmission medium.
 - Scope - LAN vs WAN
 - Transmission Medium - wired vs wireless.
 - Note: a network may use both wired and wireless connections.


##### Local Area Network (LAN)
 - A **LAN** covers a relatively *small geographical area*.
 - The infrastructure is typically owned or managed by one organisation.
 - You can use switches to logically divide a network up into subnetworks, allowing improved security segmentation.


##### Wide Area Network (WAN)
 - A **WAN** is a *collection* of 2 or more *LANs* over a *large geographical area*.
 - Typically an **Internet Service Provider (ISP)**, e.g. BT and Vodafone, usually connects LANs together to form the WAN.


##### The Internet
 - The **internet** is the *collection of all LANs (and WANs)* in the world.
 - It in itself is a WAN, and it is the largest one.
 - The internet is not owned by one single entity and has no one point of failure nor centre.
 - A single organisation could own a section of the internet, e.g. BT, but no one can solely own everything.


##### Internet of Things (IoT)
 - **IoT** refers to the network of devices that can sense some data about the world (e.g. temperature), send that data to a server for processing, and then perform some action in response to that data.
 - **IoT** is a network of *embedded systems* that use *sensors* to gather data and *actuators* to performs tasks, all coordinated via the cloud to create automated, data-driven environments.
 - I.e., the don't require human input to function or communicate.


##### Communication Protocols
 - Three layers in human speech:
	 - Content Layer: Forming the data to transmit.
	 - Rules:
		 - Use a common language, i.e. use English to speak.
		 - Wait your turn.
		 - Signal when finished.
	 - Physical Layer: The sound waves coming out of my mouth.
 - A **protocol** is a set of rules that *govern communication*.


##### Protocol Stack (Suite)
 - A set of protocols that work together to enable communication.
 - One example of a protocol stack is:
	 - TCP/IP Stack: This is what is used TODAY!
		 - Application - HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, DNS, SMTP, DHCP, SSH
		 - Transport - TCP, UDP
		 - Internet (IP) - IPv4, IPv6, ICMP
		 - Link (Network Access) - Ethernet, Wi-Fi, PPP, ...
 - A protocol stack is a conceptual model.
 - Another example is OSI:
	 - OSI Reference model:
		 - L7 Application
		 - L6 Presentation
		 - L5 Session
		 - L4 Transport
		 - L3 Network
		 - L2 Data Link
		 - L1 Physical


##### Segmentation, Encapsulation and Decapsulation
 - Sender (Encapsulation)
	 - *Application* - Data
		 - You cannot send this in one go, so we use segmentation to dive it up into smaller pieces that are easier to transfer.
		 - Each piece can take a different route.
	 - Transport - 
- **PDU (Protocol Data Unit)** = Data + header
- The process of adding the header to the segmented data is called encapsulation.
- 




