Slides


##### Contents
 - 


##### Application Layer
 - The application layer provides the services and protocols that applications use to communicate with the network.
 - Service = what is being provided
 - Protocol = the systems that allows the service to communicate with the client.
 - The protocols in the application layer include: HTTP(S), ...


##### Standards
 - Examples: IETF (Internet ... ... Force) and IEEE
 - IETF
	 - Concerned with the upper layers of the OSI model.
	 - Documentation in RFCs (Requests for Comments) that describe the standard.
 - IEEE
	 - Concerned with the physical and data link layer.


##### Client-Server Architecture
 - Asymmetric roles: Clients request a service and servers provide the service.
 - Centralised topology - *Central entity* that controls everything, i.e. the serve.
 - Server = a process that listens for requests
 - Client = a process that initiates communication by sending requests


##### Peer-to-Peer Architecture
 - Symmetric roles: peers can both request and provide resources.
 - Decentralised topology, direct communication without a central entity
 - Every node can request (client) and provide resources (servant)


##### Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
 - The web is an information space of resources (identified by URIs) interconnected by links.
 - HTTP facilitates that transfer of these resources.
 - The client makes a HTTP get request for a particular website.
 - The server responds with a HTTP response containing the webpage.


##### HTTP Response
 - You have a header containing metadata information.
 - You then have the body with contains the data you want.


##### HTTPS
 - The S stands for secure.
 - It uses encryption, i.e. doesn't send your data as plain text.
 - It protects against tampering, i.e. you will know if the data has change during transport.
 - It also allows use to authenticate the server we are requesting a service from.
 - HTTP over TLS.
 - HTTP 3 uses QUIC not TCP.


##### Dynamic Host Control Protocol (DHCP)
 - All devices connected to the network need to have an IP address, hence IP configuration is used.
 - In your home network, your router acts as the DHCP server, providing a private IP address to each connected end device.
 - In an enterprise, they usually have a dedicated server for this.


##### Remote Access Protocols (Telnet and SSH)
 - Telnet transfers data as plain text, i.e. no encryption or integrity.
 - Secure Shell (SSH) - provides encrypted and integrity protected communication.

