[Slides](https://ele.exeter.ac.uk/pluginfile.php/5533804/mod_resource/content/1/ECM1413_25_26_Lecture_02_File_Management.pdf)


##### Contents
 - [[#What is a File?]]
 - [[#File Management in Linux]]
	 - [[#Everything is a File]]


##### What is a File?
 - A ***file*** is a *named* collection of *related information* that is stored on *secondary storage* (non-volatile memory).
 - A ***file attribute*** is *metadata* (descriptive tag) that provides information about the *file's properties* and *controls its behaviour*, governing how the OS and applications handle the file.
 - Each file has a set of attributes:
	 - the *name* of the file (given by the user or application)
	 - an *identifier* for the file (a name given by the OS)
	 - a *file extension* which tells an application how to interpret the bit string, e.g. `.pdf`, `.doc`, `.png`, `.jpg`
	 - the *location* of the file on the storage device (where it starts and ends)
	 - the *size* of the file
	 - the *protection mode* of the file, governing who has access, e.g. who can read or write or delete or execute
	 - the *times* that the file was created/access/modified


#### File Management in Linux
 - Linux has two distinctive features of the file system:
	 - an *everything-is-a-file* approach
	 - a tree-like *i-node* pointer structure


##### Everything is a File
 - In Linux, *everything is represented by a file* in the file system.
 - The Linux kernel provides a ***Virtual File System (VFS)*** layer, which represents hardware devices and system resources as entries in the file tree.
 - This approach simplifies software development.
 - There are six types of files:
	 - ***Regular Files***
		 - These are what we typically think of as 'files'.
		 - They contain data, such as a plain text document, executable program, an image, or compressed archive.
		 - The systems doesn't care about the internal format, all it 'sees' is a stream of bytes.
		 - Example file formats: `.txt`, `.pdf`, `.exe`, `.png`, `.zip`
	 - ***Directories***
		 - In Linux, a ***directory*** is a special type of file that contains a list of names and the *inode numbers* (pointers) of the files that the directory contains.
		 - When you "open" a folder, you are reading a file that tells the OS where to find the files that the directory contains.
	 - ***Links (Hard Links)***
		 - A hard link is an additional name for an existing file.
		 - It points to the same inode (the physical data on the disk) as the original file.
	 - ***Symbolic Links***
		 - A ***symbolic link*** is a small file that contains the *text path* to another file.
		 - They are also known as "*soft links*" or "*symlinks*".
		 - If you delete the target file, the soft link becomes "*broken*" because its just a pointer to a path that no longer exists.
	 - ***Pipes***
		 - In the file system, there are ***Named Pipes*** (also called FIFOs).
		 - These act like "*first-in, first-out*" buffers.
		 - One process writes data into the pipe file, and another process reads it out.
		 - It allows two *unrelated processes to communicate*, this links to the *microkernel OS structure in lecture 1*.
	 - ***Special Files***
		 - These are found in the `/dev` directory and act as gateways to hardware devices.





