[PDF Instructions](https://ele.exeter.ac.uk/pluginfile.php/5352246/mod_resource/content/2/Tutorial_03.pdf)

##### Questions
1. Explain the 4 types of security threats
	- ***Interruption*** - An attacker can temporarily disrupt the connection in a communication
	- ***Interception*** - An attacker can access and understand the private conversation being transmitted on a network
	- ***Modification*** - An attacker has the ability to understand and modify data being transmitted on a network
	- ***Fabrication*** - An attacker can produce data with the intent of deceiving the system or user using the system
2. Describe how one could use a cryptography system to ensure a file comes from a specific person?
	- ***Digital Signatures*** - the sender *encrypts* a hash of the message with their *private* key, then the receiver uses the senders *public* key to *decrypt* the hash. This ensures that the message originates form the specific person. The sender and recipient use different encryption keys for the signature and actual message. 
	- Exact Process:
		1. Sender takes the message and passes it through a hash function that creates a fixed-size fingerprint (hash value) of the message. 
		2. The sender uses *their private key* to encrypt the hash and their *recipient's public key* to encrypt their message.
		3. The sender then sends the hash with the message to the recipient.
		4. The recipient uses the *sender's public key* to decrypt the hash and *their private key* to decrypt the message
		5. The recipient then uses the *same hash function* to generate a hash from the transmitted message and compares it to the transmitted hash.
		6. If they are the same, the recipient knows the message came from the correct person.


