Slides


##### Contents
 - 


##### Hash Tables
 - Hashing is the process of converting some data into a smaller size.
 - You could hash an image into a single number.
 - The function that performs the hash is called a hash function,
 - Hash tables are like arrays with custom index names.
 - Hash tables are direct access.
	 - With regular direct access structures, key $k$ is normally stored in slot $k$.
	 - However, in hash tables, key $k$ is stored in slot $\text{hash}(k)$.


##### What makes a good hash function?
 - One that distributes the hashed keys evenly.
 - This means that each key is equally likely to occupy any of the $m$ slots.
 - ...


##### Common Hash Functions
 - The division method
	 - $\text{hash}(k) = k \; \text{mod} \; m$, where $m$ is the size of the hash table.
 - The multiplication method
	 - $\text{hash}(k) = \lfloor m \; \text{x} \; (kA \; mod \; 1) \; \rfloor$


##### Order Preservation
 - Given $k_{1} < k_{2} < \dots < k_{i}$, we expect that $\text{hash}(k_{1}) < \text{hash}(k_{2}) < \dots < \text{hash}(k_{i})$.
 - This means that collisions/conflicts should never occur.


##### Collision Resolution
 - Separate Chaining
	 - The table points to a linked list that holds all keys that cause a collision at this slot.
 - Open Addressing
	 - ...


##### Collision Techniques
 - Linear Probing
 - Quadratic Probing
 - Random Probing
 - Rehashing


##### Performance Analysis of a Hash Table
 - Worst case:
	 - $T(n) = \text{time}_{\text{hash}} + \text{time}_{\text{linear search}}$
	 - $T(n) = O(1) + O(n)$
	 - $T(n) = O(n)$
 - Best case:
	 - ...
 - Average case:
	 - 




