[Slides](https://ele.exeter.ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=4383130)


##### Contents
 - [[#What is Hashing?]]
 - [[#What are Hash Tables?]]
 - [[#What makes a good Hash Function?]]
 - [[#Common Hash Functions]]
 - [[#Order Preservation]]
 - [[#Collision Resolution]]
 - [[#Open Addressing - Probing Techniques]]
 - [[#Searching a Hash Table]]
 - [[#Performance Analysis of a Hash Table]]


##### What is Hashing?
 - **Hashing** is the process of using some mathematical function (*a hash function*) to *transform some input data* of any size *into a fixed-length string of characters* (alphanumeric)
 - The output of hashing is called a hash, hash value, hash code, or digest, and acts as a unique digital "fingerprint" of the original data.
 - A **hash function** is the mathematical function used in the hashing process.
 - You can pass any data into a a hash function, even an image.
 - A good hashing algorithm makes it extremely rare for two inputs to have the same hash.
 - An example of a hash is the *SHA256* hash that is to do with cyber security.


##### What are Hash Tables?
 - A **hash table** is an array to store data in, but you don't simply add new items to the end, you *use the hash function to determine where to insert the new item*.
 - I.e., hash tables use the hash function to "map" keys (e.g. names) to storage locations!
 - In Python, the word dictionary refers to the abstract concept of mapping keys to values, but the technical implementation name is hash table!
 - Hash tables are direct access, i.e. lookups are constant $O(1)$:
	 - With regular direct access structures, key $k$ is normally stored in slot $k$.
	 - However, in hash tables, key $k$ is stored in slot $\text{hash}(k)$.
 - Therefore, even if the hash table contains millions of elements, lookups are very fast.


##### What makes a good Hash Function?
 - One that distributes the hashed keys evenly throughout the storage space.
	 - This means that each key is equally likely to be hashed to any of the $m$ slots, i.e. a uniform distribution.
 - Unfortunately, the above is rarely possible since we would need to know the probability distribution of the keys.


##### Common Hash Functions
 - **The Division Method**
	 - $\text{hash}(k) = k \; \text{mod} \; m$, where $m$ is the size of the hash table.
	 - Good values of $m$ are crucial, they are usually prime numbers close to the number of total items to store divided by the number of average [[#Collision Resolution|probes]].
	 - Example:
		 - If we want to store 4000 numbers with an average of 4 probes, we would choose $m$ to be a prime close to 1000, i.e. 997.
 - **The Multiplication Method**
	 - $\text{hash}(k) = \lfloor m \; \text{x} \; (kA \; mod \; 1) \; \rfloor$
	 - Where $A$ is a constant and $\in (0,1)$.
	 - A good standard for $A$ is $\frac{\sqrt{ 5 } - 1}{2} \approx 0.61803398\dots$
	 - Example:
		 - To store the number $765 \; (k)$ into a table of size $45 \; (m)$:
$$hash(765) = \lfloor 45 \cdot [(765 \cdot 0.61803398\dots) \; \text{mod} \; 1|] \rfloor $$
$$hash(765) = 35$$


##### Order Preservation
 - This concept is similar to the stability of sorting algorithms.
 - Given $k_{1} < k_{2} < \dots < k_{i}$, we expect that $\text{hash}(k_{1}) < \text{hash}(k_{2}) < \dots < \text{hash}(k_{i})$.
 - This means that collisions/conflicts should never occur.


##### Collision Resolution
 - **Separate Chaining or Open Hashing**
	 - Each location in the table points to another data structure, most commonly a linked list, that holds all keys that hash to this location.
	 - You can also use a binary search tree to make the searching process faster.
	 - I.e., the table doesn't actually contain the data itself, rather the pointers to data structures that do.
	 - You can think of the hash table as more like a directory rather than a raw collection of files.
	 - This is the most common resolution mechanism.
	 - However, when the secondary data structure becomes too large, the search process turns into a linear search (if a simple linked list is used), $O(n)$, therefore, every so often, the hash table and hash function need to be refactored.
 - **Open Addressing or Closed Hashing**
	 - When a collision occurs, the algorithm follows a [[#Open Addressing - Probing Techniques|probing sequence]] to find the next available slot to insert the data into.


##### Open Addressing - Probing Techniques
 - **Linear Probing**
	 - If the data is not at the desired location, simply jump a fixed number of spaces and look there.
	 - Function: $\text{hash}(k, i) = (\text{hash}'(k) + i)(\text{mod} \; m)$.
		 - The new location is modded to ensure it is within the table.
	 - This suffers from primary clustering, meaning the values are not evenly distributed through the table.
 - **Quadratic Probing**
	 - This is a variation of the linear probing, where instead of simple linear steps, the gap between steps grows quadratically to avoid clustering!
	 - Function: $\text{hash}(k, i) = (\text{hash}'(k) + c_{1}i + c_{2}i^{2})(\text{mod} \; m)$
	 - However, this suffers from secondary cluster, which is a milder version of primary clustering.
 - **Random Probing**
	 - Such a strange approach that would never be used!
	 - The next location to search is determined by adding a random number to the current location.
	 - This avoids clustering, but can rapidly lead to a simple $O(n)$ linear search, as you don't know where anything is!!!
 - **Rehashing or Double Hashing**
	 - This is where a sequence of difference hashing function are used in the scenario of a collision.
	 - They are then used in a specific order to retrieve the data.


##### Searching a Hash Table
 - This is simple:
	 - Hash the search key.
	 - It then must be present at this location.
	 - Search this location using either collision resolution techniques.
	 - If found, return data, otherwise, return null or -1.

##### Performance Analysis of a Hash Table
 - Note: $n$ is the number of elements to be stored, not the size of the hash table, which is $m$.
 - Worst case:
	 - Everything is stored at the same location, which results in a simple linear search through all data.
	 - $T(n) = \text{time}_{\text{hash}} + \text{time}_{\text{linear search}}$
	 - $T(n) = O(1) + O(n)$
	 - $T(n) = O(n)$
 - Best case:
	 - The data is evenly distributed throughout the hash table and the data desired is present at the location.
	 - $T(n) = \text{time}_{\text{hash}} + \text{time}_{\text{retrieve element}}$
	 - $T(n) = O(1) + O(1)$
	 - $T(n) = O(1)$
 - Average case:
	 - The table is not going to be completely evenly distributed, and the data is most likely not going to be at the exact location, maybe further down the linked list or probed to another location.
	 - Assume $m = O(n)$ meaning that the size of the table grows linearly with the number of elements to store.
	 - $E = O\left( \frac{n}{m} \right)$, where $E$ is the number of expected comparisons.
	 - $T(n) = \text{time}_{\text{hash}} + \text{num\_of\_comparisons}$
	 - $T(n) = O(1) + E$
	 - $T(n) = O(1) + O\left( \frac{n}{m} \right)$
	 - $T(n) = O(1) + O\left( \frac{n}{O(n)} \right)$
	 - $T(n) = O(1) + O(1)$
	 - $T(n) = O(1)$






